# feedback-report-workflow
Here is the poster and further information to "An R-dominated Workflow to Produce 850.000 Feedback Reports to Schools in (Almost) Real Time", presented at useR 2024 (08.07.-11.07.2024).

## Abstract:

An R-dominated Workflow to Produce 850.000 Feedback Reports to Schools in (Almost) Real Time

Gabriele von Eichhorn, Elisabeth Rothe, Moritz Friedrich, Roman Freunberger

Educational Large-Scale Assessment in Austria has undergone a major change in 2022, when the system was changed from one to multiple yearly tests for several subjects and grades (iKMPLUS). The major challenge for the test developers was the immediate feedback of test results to test takers and teachers. Keeping high psychometric standards, we used a mixture of pre-calibrating the test booklets for scaling and cohort-specific reference scores and automatically sourced R scripts for coding, analysing and reporting the test data. R was used in all these processes with TAM for IRT-scaling, dplyr and tidyr for convenient data wrangling, doParallel for handling the workload and R Markdown and ggplot2 for reporting and monitoring. In sum, our R-based process of reporting nation-wide test results, for primary and secondary school pupils, produces 850.000 reports every year for teachers, pupils and principals. Here, we want to present our main principles and experiences of reporting test results under an R-based programming approach with special emphasis on the underlying psychometric analyses, the subsequent automated generation of graphs and the process in general.


## Long summary:

Educational Large-Scale Assessment in Austria has undergone a major change in 2022, when the system was changed from one obligatory test per year to yearly obligatory tests in multiple subjects and multiple grades (iKMPLUS). New challenges arose: test results are now reported almost immediately after testing. Keeping high psychometric standards, we used a mixture of pre-calibrating the test booklets for scaling and cohort-specific reference scores and automatically sourced R scripts for coding, analysing and reporting the test data. R was used in all these processes with TAM for IRT-scaling, dplyr and tidyr for convenient data wrangling, doParallel for handling the workload and R Markdown and ggplot2 for reporting and monitoring. In sum, our R-based process of reporting nation-wide test results, for primary and secondary school pupils, produces 850.000 reports every year for teachers, pupils and principals. Here, we want to present our main principles and experiences of reporting test results under an R-based programming approach with special emphasis on the underlying psychometric analyses, the subsequent automated generation of graphs and the process in general.  
Furthermore, due to two different testing conditions (paper pencil vs. online test) the core of our process remained the same, but some R-modules needed adjustments. In primary school test results were entered by the teachers and feedback reports were generated on-demand by sending data to an R server that had access to R scripts for analysing and aggregating the feedback data and for rendering the one specific report that was requested by the stakeholder. In secondary school daily exports of all the necessary student and test data were used to first code open response item formats, merge all data sources, analyse all the test results at once and then produce all reports that would have changed from the day before.  
The primary school approach benefits from a strong collaboration with the resident IT department with their expertise in security questions as well as keeping software versions stable and functioning. Also report generation is fully dependent from and triggered by the stakeholder and is thus ad hoc. The secondary school approach lends better insight into the data and the process from the perspective of the R programming team. 

## Further information:
[educational large-scale assessment in Austria](https://iqs.gv.at/themen/nationale-kompetenzerhebung/ikm-plus/allgemeine-informationen-und-zielsetzung)  
[reporting in iKMPLUS](https://iqs.gv.at/themen/nationale-kompetenzerhebung/ikm-plus-sekundarstufe/rueckmeldung-und-foerderung)  
[translated student reports](https://iqs.gv.at/ikmplus-uebersetzungen)  
complementary material including sample reports for [teachers](https://iqs.gv.at/downloads/nationale-kompetenzerhebung/ikm-plus-sekundarstufe/lehrpersonen), [school principals](https://iqs.gv.at/downloads/nationale-kompetenzerhebung/ikm-plus-sekundarstufe/schulleitungen) and [parents/students](https://iqs.gv.at/downloads/nationale-kompetenzerhebung/ikm-plus-sekundarstufe/schueler-innen-und-erziehungsberechtigte)
